# SparePartsPricePredictionApp

<b>Abstract</b></br>
There are more than 50% of the people are driving vehicles in Sri Lanka. All drivers face many vehicle-related troubles like vehicle breakdown, maintenance issues, high cost, and vehicle insurance issues in day to day life. It is hard to manage all the things at once. More than 80% of the drivers have less knowledge about vehicle-related things. Someone has the ability to fix these problems but most of the drivers are unable to face these problems by themselves. They hope for help from someone. Because of that many drivers are motivated to use mobile applications. By using those mobile applications they can find immediate solutions for their vehicle problems and can efficiently do their daily works. But still, most of these mobile applications and other online features focus primarily on only one or two features. There is no specific app that has all the features in it. Our proposed mobile application will help the user to find solutions in the vehicle breakdown, provide maintenance details for vehicle safety, reduce the unnecessary cost for repairs and also provide a good recommendation about the vehicle insurance companies.
</br></br>
<b>Price prediction for spare part replacement function</b></br>
Most people do not have a good understanding of the costs of vehicle repairs, spare part replacements. Before going to the mechanic, it's better to know the cost that you might have to spend on repairing or replacing parts roughly. The mechanics will not be able to cheat the user on the money. And some people know how to repair their own vehicles. But finding better quality spare parts for a fair price in the area is very difficult. The app will suggest a user-friendly solution to these kinds of problems. Collect vehicle spare part price data according to the vehicle model from several spare parts dealers and store them in the server. In-vehicle repairs', there are spare part replacements, in such situations, the app will predict the rough cost of replacing the parts. The rough price of the required spare parts, the technician's expenses (depending on human hours), and also the overall cost of repairs will be predicted from this function. Depending on the location of the user, the app will recommend the nearest quality product spare parts shops by analyzing Google reviews. Also, predict future vehicle repair prices based on the vehicle model and spare part prices. The advantage of this function is the users can have an idea about the cost they have to spend for the repair or parts replacement and can avoid some surprises of spending more money. Also, users can buy spare parts on their own for a fair price with good quality. So then they can reduce spend more money on low-quality products. 
(Data source – Autolanka, From the Parts Counter Personnel of Toyolanka vehicle service station)
</br></br>
For the full research, visit: 
<a href="http://gitlab.sliit.lk/2021-194/2021-194.git">http://gitlab.sliit.lk/2021-194/2021-194.git
